on Page SEO:
Content
Title  and meta description
Heading Tag
Images
URLS,
Rich SNippets

In addition, the search engine analyses if the page is offering a good user experience with relevant information.


OFF Page SEO Factors:

Off-page factors, on the other hand, are elements that demonstrate the page’s status as a reference but are not located in the content of the page.



Number of backlinks
Diversity of backlinks
Context of backlinks
Brand mentions
Social signs
Direct search

If a page receives many visitors via direct searches for a brand name and many backlinks or mentions from trusted sites, it’s considered more authoritative in the market.


combating dubious and low-quality content, known as Black Hat SEO.

Black Hat strategies have been a target of Google since the early days of SEO.

When the algorithm was still new and had a lot of loopholes, it was easy to cheat the system to get a higher ranking, even if you had nothing to offer. 

Common Black Hat strategies included:

Doorway pages: pages optimized to redirect users to malicious pages
Cloaking: pages that present different content to real users and bots
Link farms: pages that only contain backlinks to other pages
Keyword stuffing: pages excessively repeating keywords
Hidden texts and links: pages hiding text and links from the user, but not from bots
Comment spam: pages that comment on blogs to gain backlinks



These guidelines coincide with White Hat SEO. These are acceptable SEO strategies recommended by search engines.


EEAT:
Experience
Expertise
Authority
Trust



Learn the keyword basics

The idea is to determine which keywords and long-tail key phrases people are searching for in order to find content like yours and use them in natural, helpful ways.
keywords should be sprinkled naturally throughout your written content. But they should also be incorporated into meta descriptions, URLs, titles, etc.


Learn what goes into a solid user experience

getting better at determining which sites are capable of delivering that experience, so understanding the user experience (UX) signals is an important part of SEO.

 positive user experience that search algorithms look for include simple, clean, user-friendly website designs. 
 
 Mobile accessibility, high-quality content, fast load speeds, and helpful use of external and internal links are crucial, as well.
 
 UX signals that indicate your site is a good option include high dwell times. The longer a user spends on a site after finding it through a search, the more likely it is that the site in question is truly meeting their needs and expectations.
 
 On Page SEO:
 
 These factors include your formatting choices (as with H1, H2, and H3 tags), your image descriptions, the relevancy and timeliness of your content, etc. 
 
  good on-page SEO strategy strikes a good balance between pleasing human users and sending the right signals to search bots.

But off-page SEO is important, too

aspect of SEO covers factors that speak to other people’s opinions of your content. Examples include your catalog of authority backlinks, social media shares, and other instances where your brand or content is mentioned.



Steps FOr SEO:

Defining your seo strategy
KeyWord Research
Content Creation
On and off-page SEO


SEO Stragegies Defining:

increasing organic traffic
Generate more leads
Creation of more sales
Reduce Client acquisation cost
Educate the market
Increase brand authority


Navigational
Transactional
Informational
Local



On Page SEO:




